---
title: Contributing
description: Help Dialtone be even better.
---

## Component contribution

### Design

TBD

### Code

To make code changes in our Design System please first read the
[CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/dialpad/dialtone/blob/staging/.github/CONTRIBUTING.md#contributing)
in our Dialtone repository.

## Adding icons and illustrations

If you need to add an icon into Dialtone, here’s how you would go about doing that.

### For system icons

1. Create a new branch in [dialtone-icons] repo starting with "feat/" in the name.
2. Place the exported SVG file(s) in the appropriate folder category inside `./src/svg/`
3. If you need to add keywords related to the icon.
   - Add the icon name to `./src/icons.json` into the correct category.
   - Add the keywords array as the value. e.g.

   ```json
   {
      "arrows": {
        "arrow-left": ["arrow", "left", "direction"],
        ...
      }
   }
   ```

4. Commit and push your branch to [dialtone-icons].
5. Open a pull request.
6. Once approved it can be merged into main and will go out in the next dialtone-icons release.

### For spot illustrations

1. Create a new branch in [dialtone] repo starting with "brand-icon/" or "spot-illustration/" in the name.
2. Place the exported SVG file(s) in the appropriate folders: `./lib/build/svg/spot/`
3. **Add icon or pattern information to the correct data file.** On their own data file: `./docs/_data/svg-spot.json`

   The data is pulled from the data files in the ordered it's entered, so you must place it in alphabetical order
   in the data file. Here is an example of information you must provide is:

    ```js
    "name": "Illustration Name",
    "file": "actual-file-name",
    "vue": "[Illustration|Pattern]Name",
    "desc": "Description about the icon and where it's used."
    ```

   - **Name:** This is the name that will appear on the Dialtone website.
   - **File:** This needs to be the exact name of the file minus the .svg file type.
   - **Vue:** This is what the compiled name will be. This is generated by Dialtone, using the above file name.
     It adds the word Icon or Pattern depending on the SVG type. The file name is PascalCased next to it. For example,
     a “label” file would be IconLabel. An “international-calling-alt” file would be IconInternationalCallingAlt.
   - **Desc:** This is a description about the illustration and where it is used.

4. Import the Illustrations into the `BaseIcon.vue` file:

   ```js
   import SpotIlluVueName from '@dialpad/dialtone-css/lib/dist/vue/spot/SpotIlluVueName.vue';
   ```

5. Also add them in the export / components list:

   ```js
   export default {
      components: {
         SpotIlluVueName,
      }
   }
   ```

6. Verify your changes have been updated on the website by running `pnpm run start:dialtone` and navigating to `localhost:4000`.
   If you would like to verify your final output svg file run `pnpm nx build dialtone` and look in the `./lib/dist/svg` folder
7. Commit and push your branch to Dialtone.
8. Open a pull request.
9. Once approved it can be merged into staging and will go out in the next dialtone release.

[dialtone-icons]: https://github.com/dialpad/dialtone-icons "Dialtone Icons"
